# OpenSSH Honeypot Report

### Overview
This project involved deploying a Windows Server 2022 machine (a version of Windows 10) as a honeypot for SSH connections, analyzing the logs generated by those connections, and blocking connecting devices via the system's firewall. By leaving a server such as this exposed to the internet at large, threat actors can be identified before they attack key infrastructure and preemptively stopped. Documenting this process from start to finish makes it easier to replicate and employ at larger scale in the future.

#### [1. Installing OpenSSH](./1_installing_openssh.md)
OpenSSH Server is simple to install with either PowerShell or the Windows settings GUI. With PowerShell, a command was run to find the available OpenSSH service and version, which was installed. In the GUI, OpenSSH can be installed as an optional feature through the Apps category.

#### [2. Setting up OpenSSH](./2_setting_up_openssh.md)
Little configuration is needed for the purpose of a honeypot. With PowerShell commands, the OpenSSH server was both run and set to start when the machine is booted. These commands were confirmed to work in the Services GUI of Windows, which displays the current status of programs as well as whether they run on device startup.  Additionally, the default shell for SSH users was changed to PowerShell, which has better logging functionality than the default Windows Command Prompt, allowing for further analysis of an attacker's activities.

#### [3. Accessing the Honeypot via SSH](./3_accessing_honeypot_via_ssh.md)
After ascertaining the IP address of the Windows machine, a Kali Linux environment connected via SSH, logging into the default Administrator account. Both devices were on the same local area network (LAN), as testing the honeypot over a public network would have left it vulnerable before being deployment-ready, as well as difficult to accomplish with present infrastructure.

#### [4. Viewing Logs in Event Viewer](./4_viewing_logs_event_viewer.md)
OpenSSH logs are sent to the Windows Event Viewer by default, and this behavior was not changed. Operational logs for the application include information on changes in the server's status as well as records of incoming connections. As identifying potential threat actors was the goal of this honeypot, the IP addresses associated with those connections were vital to identify quickly, and a custom view was created in Event Viewer to cross-reference OpenSSH logs with Windows Security logs for attempted logons. This practice allows security personnel to find the relevant connection logs quickly and easily by their shared timestamps with logon attempts. These collections of logs can also be exported for analysis in SIEM software, and sample log files are included with this report.

#### [5. Using Windows Firewall to Block IP Addresses](./5_using_wdf_to_block_ip_addresses.md)
Once the IP address of a potential attacker was identified in the logs, it was blocked through the firewall native to Windows. Opening Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security allows for the creation of rules for inbound traffic. By establishing such a rule to block specific IP addresses from making TCP connections over port 22 (the default port for SSH connections), further connections from those addresses were prevented, and similar filters can be established for other infrastructure using the list of known threat actors. This firewall rule was confirmed to work with the same Kali Linux machine as was used in Step 3. 


### View the Step-by-Step Tutorial:
1. [Installing OpenSSH](./1_installing_openssh.md)
2. [Setting up OpenSSH](./2_setting_up_openssh.md)
3. [Accessing the Honeypot via SSH](./3_accessing_honeypot_via_ssh.md)
4. [Viewing Logs in Event Viewer](./4_viewing_logs_event_viewer.md)
5. [Using Windows Firewall to Block IP Addresses](./5_using_wdf_to_block_ip_addresses.md)

[Or read the whole report at once here](./longform_report.md)
